The Email Activity Feed allows you to view a snapshot of recent email-related activity events associated with your account and any subusers. It makes the delivery flow of each message visible, which expedites troubleshooting. The additional Email Activity history add-on extends event access up to 30 days.

With the Email Activity feed you can:

Troubleshoot email delivery issues faster with comprehensive and sequential event data by email message.
Pinpoint specific emails easily with advanced search and filter options--including subject line and email metadata.
Customize your data independently with the CSV download/export option.
View up to 30 days of history when you purchase an upgrade.
Call all events by an email message from the API when you purchase additional storage.
Reseller accounts and extra high volume accounts do not have access to the new Email Activity Feed. For information about the legacy Email Activity Feed, see Legacy Email Activity

Types of email activity data
The Email Activity Feed allows you to view specific information about messages sent from your account.

Event
Description
Processed
Requests from your website, application, or mail client via SMTP Relay or the API that SendGrid processed.
Clicks
Whenever a recipient clicks one of the Click Tracked links in your email. In the Email History, SendGrid displays the date, time, and the URL for the link that was clicked.
Delivered
The accepted response generated by the recipients' mail server.
Opens
The response generated by a recipient opening an email.
Unsubscribes
Whenever a recipient unsubscribes from your emails.
Group Unsubscribes
Whenever a recipient unsubscribes from a suppression group.
Group Resubscribes
When a recipient resubscribes themselves to a suppression group.
Deferred
The recipient mail server asked SendGrid to stop sending emails so fast.
Drops
SendGrid will drop an email when the contact on that email is in one of your suppression groups, the recipient email previously bounced, or that recipient has marked your email as spam.
Bounces
The receiving server could not or would not accept the message. If a recipient has previously unsubscribed from your emails, your attempt to send to them is bounced.
Blocks
When your IP address has been blocked by an ISP or messaging organization. Blocks are less severe than bounces and do not result in permanent suppressions: subsequent sends to blocked email addresses are not automatically suppressed.
Spam Reports
Whenever a recipient marks your email as spam and their mail server tells us about it.
